_talks/2016/04/a-whirlwind-tour-of-purescript.md, before:

---
layout: talk
title: "A Whirlwind Tour of PureScript"
venue: "YOW! Lambda Jam 2016"
date: "2016-04-28 10:00"
comments: true
categories:
- purescript
- functional
thumbnail_url: "/talks/2016/04/a-whirlwind-tour-of-purescript.png"
twitter_card: "summary"
excerpt: |
  A PureScript talk and workshop, introducing it with a small game that we'll build piece by piece, from simple functions to a web-based app, giving you a chance to try out features and libraries along the way.
---

_The following is being given at [YOW! Lambda Jam 2016](http://lambdajam.yowconference.com.au/) on 28–29 April. I hope to see you all there!_ 😊

This talk and workshop/jam will introduce you to PureScript, a strongly-typed, Haskell-inspired programming language that compiles to JavaScript. These sessions will focus on building a small game in incremental steps, from simple functions to a web-based app, giving you a chance to try out features and libraries along the way. You should leave the session with a grasp of PureScript fundamentals, and a self-sufficiency to tackle your own projects and experiments.


Talk Prerequisites:

* Basic programming experience; the talk is explicitly targeted at a range of experience levels. A familiarity with Haskell and JavaScript will help you understand more of the talk, but is not a strict requirement.


Workshop/Jam Prerequisites:

* Hardware: a computer capable of running a provided VirtualBox VM, with ~15GB disk space to allow for a VM image, and at least a spare 1GB RAM for running the same.
* At least a familiarity with both Haskell and JavaScript; a little is fine, but none of either will leave you lost.


Useful Extras:

* An internet connection via a 3G/4G-connected device like a phone or tablet. (This will NOT be provided by YOW! or the venue.)


Optional Preparation:

* If you want to get your feet wet with Haskell, the [Yorgey CIS194 lecture introduction](http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cis194/spring13/lectures/01-intro.html) gives you a broad overview, which can be followed up with [sample chapters](http://haskellbook.com/images/sample.pdf) from the ["Haskell Book"](http://haskellbook.com/). Additionally, Chris Allen's ["Modeling Data in Haskell for Beginners" talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-NBJm0kIYU) also covers a slew of useful concepts.
* If you've not touched JavaScript before, I'd recommend reading some of the freely-available book, ["Eloquent JavaScript"](http://eloquentjavascript.net/).
* If you want to get a head start, the ["PureScript by Example" book](https://leanpub.com/purescript/read) is a handy learning reference, but it's best tackled after dabbling in the above first.

Commit message:

Post-YLJ16 update to the Talk post.

_talks/2016/04/a-whirlwind-tour-of-purescript.md, after:

---
layout: talk
title: "A Whirlwind Tour of PureScript"
venue: "YOW! Lambda Jam 2016"
date: "2016-04-28 10:00"
comments: true
categories:
- purescript
- functional
thumbnail_url: "/talks/2016/04/a-whirlwind-tour-of-purescript.png"
twitter_card: "summary"
excerpt: |
  A PureScript talk and workshop, introducing it with a small game that we'll build piece by piece, from simple functions to a web-based app, giving you a chance to try out features and libraries along the way.
---

> The following was given at [YOW! Lambda Jam 2016](http://lambdajam.yowconference.com.au/) on 28–29 April. Thank you all who attended. 😊
>
> The material for the workshop (which includes the game I presented during the talk) is available on my GitHub profile: [https://github.com/damncabbage/ylj16-workshop](https://github.com/damncabbage/ylj16-workshop)

This talk and workshop/jam will introduce you to PureScript, a strongly-typed, Haskell-inspired programming language that compiles to JavaScript. These sessions will focus on building a small game in incremental steps, from simple functions to a web-based app, giving you a chance to try out features and libraries along the way. You should leave the session with a grasp of PureScript fundamentals, and a self-sufficiency to tackle your own projects and experiments.


Talk Prerequisites:

* Basic programming experience; the talk is explicitly targeted at a range of experience levels. A familiarity with Haskell and JavaScript will help you understand more of the talk, but is not a strict requirement.


Workshop/Jam Prerequisites:

* Hardware: a computer capable of running a provided VirtualBox VM, with ~15GB disk space to allow for a VM image, and at least a spare 1GB RAM for running the same.
* At least a passing familiarity with both Haskell and JavaScript; a little is fine, but absolutely none of either will leave you lost.


Useful Extras:

* An internet connection via a 3G/4G-connected device like a phone or tablet. (This will NOT be provided by YOW! or the venue.)


Optional Preparation:

* If you want to get your feet wet with Haskell, the [Yorgey CIS194 lecture introduction](http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~cis194/spring13/lectures/01-intro.html) gives you a broad overview, which can be followed up with [sample chapters](http://haskellbook.com/images/sample.pdf) from the ["Haskell Book"](http://haskellbook.com/). Additionally, Chris Allen's ["Modeling Data in Haskell for Beginners" talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-NBJm0kIYU) also covers a slew of useful concepts.
* If you've not touched JavaScript before, I'd recommend reading some of the freely-available book, ["Eloquent JavaScript"](http://eloquentjavascript.net/).
* If you want to get a head start, the ["PureScript by Example" book](https://leanpub.com/purescript/read) is a handy learning reference, but it's best tackled after dabbling in the above first.
